#summary Config Variables
#labels Phase-Implementation

The config variable is STDClass $C. It has no required property, as of now.

Important Properties:

===path===
The path (url) of the application, *with trailing slash*

eg. /add-adodb-admin/


===classes_dirs===
Array of class directories aside from your application's classes and framework's application classes directories.

Good for having a class directory common for different applications.

===environment_status===
Environment Status (to be called application_status on a future version) is a config property that switches various applications processes for proper handling on live or development status

====Live====
On "live" status, all errors are not shown. To check if the application is on this mode, use add::is_live() method.

For security purposes, this is the default application status.

====Development====
"development" status indicates that the only user of the application is the developer himself.

Error reporting is set to E_ALL and some debugging data will show on the end of the script. Mailed exceptions are also not mailed but instead echo'ed

====Example====
{{{
<?php
/**
 * Register Controller Class
 */
CLASS ctrl_page_register EXTENDS ctrl_tpl_page {
   protected $mode_gpc_register = array(
         '_POST' => array('email','password') 
      );
   
   /**
    * Registration mode, checks the email first if the environment status is live
    *
    * @param array $gpc
    *
    */
   public function process_mode_register($gpc) {
      extract($gpc);
      
      
      
      if (add::is_live()) {
         filter_var($email, FILTER_VALIDATE_EMAIL);
      }
      
      member::add_new($gpc);
      
   }
}

}}}