#summary ADD MVC Framework Terminology
#labels Phase-Design
* Warning * Terms definitions are used only for framework use.

=== Framework ===
the ADD MVC Framework or the ADD MVC framework directory

=== Config ===
Can refer to both config variable or the config file

==== Config Variable ====
the framework configuration php variable, usually accessed through add::config() or $C

==== Config File ====
  The file containing or declaring the Config Variable

=== Main Execution File ===
  The PHP file executing the framework according to the current request. (eg. add.php). File name is configured on the ADD Framework .htaccess rewrite rule.

=== ADD Framework .htaccess rewrite rule ===
  The .htaccess write rule that rewrites non-existing filepath and the directory index to the Main Execution File.

=== Controllers ===
  PHP Classes that contains the execution process. Processes the request of the user and and use it to manipulate both view and models.
=== Models ===
  PHP Classes represent and manipulate database tables. It is used to get model instances.

====  Model Instances ====
  Represents and manipulates row from the table

=== View Files ===
  The presentation file. (eg. the HTML)

=== Mode ===
  (of controllers) A separate process or action of a controller.

=== Sub Mode ===
  (of controllers)

=== href ===
any URL, or path

==== path ====
  URL path, excluding the domain

==== url ==== 
  the url path, with http/s and the domain

=== filename ==
   eg. example.php

=== basename ===
the filename without extension

=== dir ===
  filesystem path to a directory

=== file path name ===
the file system path including the file name eg. /path/to/dir/example.php